{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fs22 \b SAE Aero Design Simulation Review Tracker\b0\par Project: sae-aero-design-simulation\par Created: 2026-06-10\par Last updated: 2026-06-10\par \par \b Workflow\b0\par 1. Report the issue and its scope.\par 2. Wait for user approval before fixing.\par 3. If the user does not approve, move the issue to Pending - not approved.\par 4. If the user approves, implement the fix and record the result.\par 5. Keep this tracker document updated after every decision and fix.\par \par \b Issue Summary\b0\par [C1] P0 | Critical | Awaiting approval | Dynamic pressure uses inertial speed instead of air-relative airspeed\par [C2] P0 | Critical | Awaiting approval | Environment presets are not faithfully wired into the active model\par [C3] P0 | Critical | Awaiting approval | Propulsion model has nonphysical scaling and a prop-arm interface mismatch\par [C4] P0 | Critical | Awaiting approval | Repository carries stale and incompatible architectures\par [S1] P1 | High | Awaiting approval | Solver configuration is too coarse for RC 6-DOF simulation\par [S2] P1 | High | Awaiting approval | Aerodynamic data validation is too weak\par [S3] P1 | High | Awaiting approval | Competition scoring and mission paths are inconsistent\par [S4] P1 | High | Awaiting approval | Bus and unit architecture is not self-contained\par [S5] P1 | High | Awaiting approval | RC calibration code relies on base workspace magic and silent fallbacks\par [S6] P2 | Medium | Awaiting approval | Educational traceability from physics to implementation is too weak\par \par \b Status Groups\b0\par \b Awaiting approval\b0\par [C1] Dynamic pressure uses inertial speed instead of air-relative airspeed\par [C2] Environment presets are not faithfully wired into the active model\par [C3] Propulsion model has nonphysical scaling and a prop-arm interface mismatch\par [C4] Repository carries stale and incompatible architectures\par [S1] Solver configuration is too coarse for RC 6-DOF simulation\par [S2] Aerodynamic data validation is too weak\par [S3] Competition scoring and mission paths are inconsistent\par [S4] Bus and unit architecture is not self-contained\par [S5] RC calibration code relies on base workspace magic and silent fallbacks\par [S6] Educational traceability from physics to implementation is too weak\par \par \b Detailed Issues\b0\par \b [C1] Dynamic pressure uses inertial speed instead of air-relative airspeed\b0\par Priority: P0 | Severity: Critical | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx internal Flight Parameters subsystem (system_1153.xml). Affects aerodynamic force and moment magnitudes whenever wind is nonzero.\par Evidence: The Dynamic Pressure block is fed by <Ve>, while alpha, beta, and TAS are computed from body velocity minus uvw_wind.\par Proposed fix: Rewire dynamic pressure to use air-relative speed and add a regression case for steady crosswind.\par Relevant files: Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (system_1153.xml)\par Approval: Requested on 2026-06-10\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par   - 2026-06-10 - Approval requested from user before implementation.\par \par \b [C2] Environment presets are not faithfully wired into the active model\b0\par Priority: P0 | Severity: Critical | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Environment atmosphere, wind, turbulence, and site initialization paths. Affects competition realism and any student conclusion about weather or density altitude.\par Evidence: environmentLibrary says env.Atmosphere is display-only, Initialization zeros latitude/longitude/Altitude_MSL, the active COESA block is hard-set to a High temperature profile, and the Dryden block has hardcoded settings including T_on=off and Wingspan=geometry.Area.\par Proposed fix: Make the active model consume preset atmosphere and turbulence fields, pass the correct wingspan, and align initialization with the selected environment.\par Relevant files: Core/environment/environmentLibrary.m, Core/environment/MaskCodeClass.m, Core/initialization/Initialization.m, Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (system_1209.xml), Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (system_1228.xml)\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [C3] Propulsion model has nonphysical scaling and a prop-arm interface mismatch\b0\par Priority: P0 | Severity: Critical | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Propulsion thrust and propulsion moment generation. Affects takeoff, climb, trim, and moment prediction.\par Evidence: Thrust is lookup-based, scaled by rho/1.225, then multiplied by Gain=2. Propulsion moments read geometry.PropArmX/Y/Z while setup live scripts define geometry.Prop.X/Y/Z.\par Proposed fix: Remove or justify the thrust scaling, standardize the prop-arm interface, and verify thrust-line moments against a hand-check case.\par Relevant files: Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (system_1168.xml), Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (system_1171.xml), SETUP/setupData_Excel_Template.mlx, SETUP/setupData_DATCOM.mlx\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [C4] Repository carries stale and incompatible architectures\b0\par Priority: P0 | Severity: Critical | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Project entry points, environment architecture, and student workflow. Affects reproducibility and user trust before any simulation starts.\par Evidence: RC_Demo.prj is a stub, active shortcuts live in resources/project, loadEnvironmentPreset expects missing SLDD assets, and several scripts still point students to SimulationChallenge.slx which is not present.\par Proposed fix: Choose one supported architecture, remove or replace dead paths, and update all student-facing entry points to the current model.\par Relevant files: RC_Demo.prj, resources/project, Core/environment/loadEnvironmentPreset.m, Core/validation/validateDesign.m, Core/mission/missionSetup.m\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S1] Solver configuration is too coarse for RC 6-DOF simulation\b0\par Priority: P1 | Severity: High | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Global simulation fidelity, especially attitude transients and pilot-in-loop response.\par Evidence: The model is configured with ode1be, fixed step 0.1, and RelTol 1e-3.\par Proposed fix: Retune the solver for the plant and controller dynamics, then verify response sensitivity to step size.\par Relevant files: Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx (configSet0.xml)\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S2] Aerodynamic data validation is too weak\b0\par Priority: P1 | Severity: High | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Manual and DATCOM import paths. Affects sign conventions, units, stall capture, and out-of-range table behavior.\par Evidence: The current pipeline does basic file checks but does not robustly catch negative CD, wrong-sign Cm slope, rad/deg mismatches, or missing DATCOM values that get zero-filled.\par Proposed fix: Add physics-based validation checks and fail fast on unit/sign errors or unsupported table coverage.\par Relevant files: Support/importAeroData.m, Support/importDatcomData.m, Support/extractAeroSummary.m, Template/Aero_Prop_ManualData_Template.xlsx\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S3] Competition scoring and mission paths are inconsistent\b0\par Priority: P1 | Severity: High | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Mission scoring, mission setup, and competition realism outputs.\par Evidence: environmentLibrary writes env.Multiplier, while scoringEngine requires environment.ScoreMultiplier. missionSetup and missionLibrary also rely on older workspace contracts and missing files.\par Proposed fix: Unify the scoring field names, align mission scripts to the current setup path, and revalidate against the intended competition rules.\par Relevant files: Support/scoringEngine.m, Core/environment/environmentLibrary.m, Core/mission/missionLibrary.m, Core/mission/missionSetup.m\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S4] Bus and unit architecture is not self-contained\b0\par Priority: P1 | Severity: High | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Signal interface clarity and reproducibility of model setup.\par Evidence: Initialization comments reference bus definitions, strict bus diagnostics are enabled, but no checked-in BusDefinitions.m or visible Simulink.Bus creation path was found.\par Proposed fix: Check in the actual bus definition source or generate it in one visible script with explicit unit conventions.\par Relevant files: Core/initialization/Initialization.m, Support/prepareLUTObjects.m, Simulation/SimulationDemo.slx\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S5] RC calibration code relies on base workspace magic and silent fallbacks\b0\par Priority: P1 | Severity: High | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Pilot input calibration and controller mask initialization.\par Evidence: Calibrated_Controller uses evalin and assignin, broad catch blocks, and silently falls back to defaults when configuration load paths fail.\par Proposed fix: Replace base-workspace coupling with explicit data flow and make failures visible and actionable.\par Relevant files: Support/Calibrated_Controller.m, Support/CalibrateInputMask.m, Calibration/Calibrate_InputDevice.slx\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par \b [S6] Educational traceability from physics to implementation is too weak\b0\par Priority: P2 | Severity: Medium | Status: Awaiting approval\par Scope: Student documentation and instructor usability.\par Evidence: Overview.mlx is good for workflow navigation, but the repo does not provide a clear equation-to-block trace for frames, qbar, sign conventions, derivatives, and thrust-line moments.\par Proposed fix: Add a short equation-to-block guide and targeted exercises that expose common student modeling mistakes.\par Relevant files: Overview.mlx, SETUP/setupData_Excel_Template.mlx, SETUP/setupData_DATCOM.mlx\par Approval: Not requested\par Log:\par   - 2026-06-10 - Issue created from repository review.\par \par }
